In 1998,
Apple Computer became the first computer
company to make open source development
part of its ongoing software strategy.
We've had great successes then,
and today we'd like to give you an update
and status on some of the projects,
which includes Darwin itself,
QuickTime Streaming Server,
OpenPlay/NetSprocket.
At this point,
I'd like to bring on stage the
director of CoreOS Engineering,
Brett Halle.
Good morning.
Certainly open source at Apple,
I think one should realize,
is becoming fairly pervasive
through our project plans.
And certainly this isn't the only session
at all that's dealing with open source.
But in this session,
we're going to spend some time
today and actually go over kind
of more of the infrastructure and
mechanisms and stuff behind what
we're doing around open source.
And you can learn a lot about
open source throughout the week
and other sessions as well.
There's a huge number of
technical sessions for Darwin,
something on the order
of 20 different sessions,
as well as some of the
other technologies.
So it's not just here we're going
to be talking about open source.
This is something that's pretty
consistent throughout much of
the technology discussions.
So we're going to spend a few minutes
and talk about a number of the various
projects around open source at Apple.
In addition,
we're going to give you a little
idea of where we're going,
particularly in some of
the infrastructure and
stuff that we're doing.
We're going to talk about how we're
going to support to kind of enable open
source development in the community.
And most importantly,
how you can get involved and
participate in the process.
So first, it's worth mentioning that
our public source license,
version 1.2,
was released just a little while ago.
And that's actually been
extremely well received.
Since the original release
of our public source license,
we've been working with the
community to kind of refine it
and make it work well for both
our developers and Apple Computer.
And I think we've done extremely well.
And clearly the community believes that
because we've been approved by the OSI as
being a certified open source license.
Certainly something
we're very happy about.
I'd like to now actually make
a bit of an announcement that
we've added a new project to the
open source projects at Apple.
This is CDSA,
the Common Data Security Architecture.
Thank you.
Sounds like that one person
is very excited about this.
This is an open group standard.
It's basically the basis,
the underlying foundation for a lot of
the security features within Mac OS X.
Support for the key chain and
other key services of the system.
It provides a number of modular
plug-ins for cryptography and
certificate management and key
management and things like that.
This is now available as of today,
I believe.
We got all the stuff all up
last night and this morning.
It should be available now on our website
for you to download and play with.
[Transcript missing]
There's a ton of projects
being ported to Mac OS X,
and I think to a large degree that's
because of the open source nature of
Darwin and other parts of the system.
It really fosters the philosophy of
being able to get these kinds of services
and capabilities under the system.
As of today, for example,
as I understand it,
on sale in Developer Depot is a
CD of something like 1,200 ports,
BSD ports from the ports collection.
1,000?
2,000!
Oh my goodness, sorry.
You know,
tools and commands and applications,
if you will,
to run into the Darwin environment.
and David LeRoy.
Also, I think that's one of the other
aspects that we think is pretty
important is being able to actually
keep up with the community at large.
There's an order of magnitude more people
involved in the development process and
there's a way to really leverage that
community far beyond the walls of Apple.
I think it's a pretty important
capability and facility.
Certainly,
all of this really comes down to
trying to make sure that we make the
best possible products we can for
our customers and our developers.
[Transcript missing]
and much like there's
quality benefits for us,
I think that's true as well to
the open source environment.
The reason it works is because
there's a lot of people working
on the technologies and everybody
benefits by the improvements in the
quality and testing capabilities.
For Apple, this community is growing
pretty significantly.
Since we released Darwin,
we've had over 700,000 downloads,
which is pretty darn significant.
Even the next door is clapping,
I think this is great.
They think it's pretty cool.
We've had over 95,000 users
registered on our site.
And that's a pretty significant
developer community.
Our mailing list activity year over year
has grown by two and a half times a year,
it's exponential.
And we're at this point about 1,800,
you know,
items in the mailing list
discussions every month,
and we see this growing at
a pretty ferocious rate.
Clearly as we've reached major
milestones of reaching to the developer
preview releases and the public beta
and now of course the final release,
this ends up being pretty
significant milestones of
developer involvement and adoption.
And as people continue to port their
products and technologies to Mac OS X,
this is a great forum for
them to participate in.
If you're not on the mailing list,
we encourage you to.
There's a lot of great discussion there.
There's a lot of activity going on,
specific activity going
on in the community well.
Certainly we're actively involved
in supporting the FreeBSD and
changes and things that we have.
There's a very vibrant
relationship there,
sharing information about security issues
and collaborations that we're doing on
packaging and other kinds of things.
Also, we work very tightly
with the IT department.
We're very involved in the
development of the freeBSD.
We're very involved in the Apache group.
We've certainly had them on campus and
sponsored their activities and try and
provide hardware and other things to them
as well as fixes to support the platform.
The X386 project, MySQL, PAM, et cetera,
there's a number of projects where
there's been a lot of two-way activity.
In addition,
there's been quite a lot of interest in
the open source developer community to
actually port Darwin to the X86 platform.
And we've, you know,
been supporting that work.
That's not something that, you know,
we're doing for any
product direct interest.
This is something the community
is pretty excited about doing.
And as that work continues to evolve,
we take the fixes and changes
incorporated in the source base so that
people can take advantage of one shared
source for all of that technology.
The streaming server has been ported
to just about every significant
platform that's out there.
And as a result,
you can make sure that it's
possible that you can stream
QuickTime content on just any,
anything that you want.
Also, certainly I'm sure you've seen
recent announcements on things,
new participants in
NetSprocket and OpenPlay.
And there's been a lot of
positive progress there.
And we'll talk more about
that in a few minutes.
In addition, we've been really, you know,
working with the community.
As I said, there's been a lot of fixes
and things that have come in,
things like security fixes or
other fixes that have come in.
We've actually, you know,
watched those things.
If there are opportunity,
we fold them into software updates.
So as you have seen, we've had, you know,
three software updates
since Mac OS X was released.
And in those,
when there's been opportunities
to include security fixes or
things from the community,
we do.
And like I said already,
the support line has been kind of now
kind of dealing with this new concept
of getting fixes along with their,
with bug reports.
So there's been quite a lot
of exciting activity there.
We have this as part of the
infrastructure for working
with the open source community.
As I mentioned, it's not just Apple.
We actually have people in the
community who actually have write
access to our CVS repositories and
actually in a position to contribute
directly to the code for Darwin and
some of these other projects.
And these folks we
call Darwin Developers.
These are partners in the open
source arena for a number of
specific open source projects.
They should be considered peers to
the rest of the engineers and people
at Apple in terms of their ability
to help contribute code changes
and kind of participate in the
process of evolving the source code.
They can help with questions and then
certainly they're in a position because
they have CVS commit access to be able
to commit changes and modifications
and things into the CVS repositories.
Obviously from a standpoint of
just managing the source code,
it's not a very easy thing to do.
But again,
we do try and make sure that they
are specific point people for
each of the key technologies.
But again, it's worth noting that those
people aren't necessarily
people who work for or at Apple.
These developers are folks
that the community and the
core team of Darwin have
selected for technical ability,
kind of well-known participation
in the open source community,
folks that are actually approved
by the Apple executive management.
So that they actually -- we are giving
them access to our repositories,
like I said.
There's quite a number of
people who are involved in this.
and here's a list of some of the
key people if you're involved with.
And one important announcement
that I want to make today is that
we've just recently in the past day
signed Jordan Hubbard of FreeBSD to
be part of the Darwin core team.
Jordan, if you can raise your hand.
If you know,
Jordan is actually one of the
founders of FreeBSD and is certainly,
I think, the real spiritual leader
of the FreeBSD community,
if you will.
We really take involvement and
collaboration with that community
to be a very serious goal of
Darwin and our open source project.
So we're really glad to have
him on as a Darwin developer.
In addition, there's a large number
of other people here.
I won't go through this.
You can look at the list.
But you'll actually get a chance
to meet some of these folks here a
little bit later in the presentation.
So from my particular section of this,
I think one other thing to note, again,
is that there's some really important
benefits we see to open source.
This is not an experiment for us.
This is the way we do business for
Mac OS X and for a large number of our,
you know, technologies.
And this is something that we're
really working to try and make
work well for Apple Computer.
We really, you know,
think this is something that we're,
you know, is a real benefit to you.
We think it's a benefit to Apple,
to the open source community,
and to our customers.
And we really would like to, you know,
have you guys be part
of that more and more.
So if you get an opportunity,
please get on the mailing list,
get involved,
and we'll talk a little bit more
about how you can do that and some of
the specifics in just a few minutes.
You'll see, as mentioned today,
with the growth of addition of
CDSA now in our open source arsenal,
that, you know,
this is something that we're, you know,
continuing to evolve and grow
projects that we think are appropriate
candidates for open sourcing at Apple.
And, you know,
if you're interested in it,
if you think you're one of those
people who really can make a
contribution and want to be directly
involved as a Darwin developer or
just as part of the Darwin community,
we'd love to have you.
So up next in the presentation,
we have a number of things
we're going to talk about.
Dave Dozicki is going to come up next
and talk about some of the support
resources and kind of the mechanisms
for supporting the community.
He's also going to talk about
Darwin itself and how you
can get involved in building
and working with that.
Chris LaCroix will talk a bit
about the streaming community.
He's going to talk about
the streaming server.
Lane Roth for NetSprockets and OpenPlay.
And Ron Hayden will talk about our open
documentation efforts with HeaderDoc.
And we'll also do some Q&A in the end.
And on that, I'll pass this on to Dave.
Alright, so we're going to start off
talking about what infrastructure
you guys have to work with us.
First of all, let's start off with
our Darwin repository.
Our repository,
where most of our projects live,
is beyond our firewall.
So,
you guys can get at it fairly quickly.
And our external Darwin developers
have direct access to it,
too.
We also have an internal repository
where some of our non-live projects
live for a few specific reasons.
Either we've got source code from
third parties that we can't release,
there's some information we've received
under NDA that we can't release,
things like that.
But we try to minimize that where
we can and keep our projects
in the external repository
where you guys can get at them,
read the history, read the comments,
know why we did things the way we did.
We have a web form where you
guys can come in and provide
us with patches or feedback.
Those will come to us and
also they're available to our
Darwin developers so we can get
them back into our CVS repositories.
And of course our Darwin developers
work with us and you,
the community,
to incorporate changes and fixes
into our code to make it better.
We have a bug tracking
system inside of Apple,
of course.
We also thought it was good for you
guys to be able to see what changes
we're making or need to be made so
you can help us out if we need it.
You can browse and submit
them via our website.
It is incorporated with our
internal bug tracking system,
so it's not a separate
bug tracking system.
It's just an import and
an export of our bugs,
so you don't need to worry about
any disconnect in nature of the
bugs that are reported there.
They're what's in our
bug tracking system.
And we update it three times a day
so you guys can see quick updates.
These are a bunch of
the resources we have.
There's, of course, our main website.
There's also our page on CVS and how to
use it at Apple with our repositories.
We have a few main resources.
We have our mailing list
hosted on list.apple.com.
That includes Darwin development,
our main development mailing list.
That includes Darwin OS users,
our kind of discussion list for
people that are actually using Darwin.
And there's also some mailing
lists for the streaming server
and the security project,
also known as the CDSA project.
And I think that's it for mailing lists.
There's, of course,
our bug tracking system if you want to
see what's going on with our projects.
a list of our
Darwin developers is available.
We also have Hexley,
which is a logo that was come
up with by the community.
Of course, created by John Hooper for the
use by the Darwin community.
There's also T-shirts available
that you can talk to us later.
You saw Brett, of course,
wearing one and there are a few
others of us around here wearing them.
and now I'll talk about Darwin itself.
Darwin is the core of Mac OS X.
It's the foundation.
It's the same.
You can swap in a kernel you build
yourself from our repository with
the kernel provided in our system.
We consider that very
important that you can do that.
And, you know,
if you ever run into any problems,
let us know.
But it works today and we
plan on keeping it working.
So now you've probably
seen this picture a lot.
We'll show it to you again.
Darwin is the foundation of Mac OS X.
It provides the file systems,
the networking, Mach, I/O Kit, drivers,
and it also provides user land
which would probably sit right
next to QuickTime and all sorts
of other-- or Cocoa actually.
Yeah, the foundation of MEGAUS 10.
It's BSD based with a
Mach kernel and I/O Kit.
We think it's very important that it
is BSD based because it provides a
foundation for lots of your applications
to be ported over in a quick way.
It's extensible to provide
support for a lot of file systems.
We already have a bunch
in the base system today,
including HFS, UFS, NFS, UDF, MS-DOS.
But there's certainly more out there,
and we'd like to see them.
It provides dynamic and flexible
configuration management.
As you've seen in earlier presentations,
we provide things like mobility,
hot plug of disks, and et cetera.
And it supports multiple platforms,
and we'd certainly like to see more.
Today we support PowerPC and x86.
You can download binaries for both
platforms from our website and be
able to run them today on your system.
And now we're going to have
a demo by Wilfredo Sanchez.
- Hey Brett.
My name's Fred Sanchez,
I'm a Darwin developer.
What that means is basically that,
like anyone else who works at Apple,
for Brett in the CoreOS group,
can you log in for me?
I'm one of the engineers
that works on Mac OS X.
I'm one of the authors of some
of the software that you'll see
in your system when you boot up.
In particular,
I wrote a program called System Starter
which turns your computer on
from the sort of... Init has run,
you've just turned the computer on up
to the state where it's safe to bring
up the login prompt for the multi-user.
Tomorrow there will be a talk
on performance and Joe Sokol
and Robert Budage will be like,
"Why isn't the system started?
It doesn't go fast enough."
That's a personal affront
to me so I had to fix that.
And so I got a demo here of
a thing I've been hacking on.
Yes, sir.
Flip the switch?
Demo 1?
Alright.
I am going to bring up the very
famous terminal application,
which scares a lot of people
but is a lot of fun for me.
If you're a Darwin developer,
you spend an awful lot of time
on the Unix command line prompt,
so this shouldn't scare you too much.
Basically, System Starter is like
all good Apple software,
it has a demo mode.
So I'll show you how it normally works.
It runs a series of startup
items in serialized order.
So it knows this item has to start
before this other item can go,
and it runs one at a time in order.
And what I did different here
is if you turn on your computer,
you might notice that it
takes a while to run each one,
one at a time.
And this might have looked different
to you in that you see a whole
bunch of things happening at once,
and then you see a few more,
and then you see a few more.
So what I changed is
that the startup items,
rather than running serially in order,
it'll run as many as it can possibly
run all at once in parallel.
And then as soon as it
can run another one,
it runs a few more.
And so the debugging app what
you see here is it's showing you
like it's launching a whole bunch
of commands and then waiting on
the right one to exit for you.
And I do this because I have
a vested interest in seeing
Mac OS become a better system,
mostly because I don't want to use it.
I want to use Windows for
the rest of my life.
And I don't work at Apple,
but I have access to the software
and I can do this as well,
and so can you.
Now before you think I'm a liar,
I actually used to work at Apple,
which is why I wrote this,
but now I don't, so it's all good.
So that's my demo.
Do I do the -- can you do that?
Back to date.
Thanks.
Can we switch back to the slides?
So the roadmap for
what's left in the week,
we have a 193 leveraging
BSD services in Mac OS X.
It's going to be in the
Civic Center Friday at 2:00 p.m.
We have 140, the Darwin kernel,
which is also going to be at the
Civic Center on Friday at 3:30,
which I highly recommend for those
of you that are interested in
what's going on inside the kernel.
And then there's our feedback forum on
-- also in the Civic Center at 5:00 p.m.
So up next, we have Chris LaCroix
from the QuickTime group.
Thanks Dave.
I'm just going to really
briefly go through,
or kind of provide some status
on where we're at with the
QuickTime Streaming Server.
First thing I want to do is kind of take
care of some confusion that people have.
There's a Darwin Streaming Server and
there's a QuickTime Streaming Server.
And people always ask, "Well,
what's the difference between those
two?" And there's actually nothing
different at all other than the name.
QuickTime Streaming
Server is just a branding,
our brand name that we use for the
Mac OS X version of the server.
Other than that,
they're built from the same source code.
The Darwin platforms are FreeBSD, Linux,
Windows NT, Solaris.
It's all identical source code.
They have identical functionality.
They have the same
user interface as F3.0.
There's no difference.
and David LeRoy.
So here's what, here are the platforms
we currently build on.
The ones on the top are platforms that
Apple actually builds and tests on.
So, those,
and we actually provide binaries that you
can download of all of those platforms.
The ones underneath are platforms
that other people have ported to.
Mac OS was done by some guys in Brazil.
There's a SGI IREX port.
Compaq actually ported it to
their true 64 systems which are
like massive 64-bit big hardware.
And it's been ported to a bunch of
other Linux I or Linux S or whatever the
In 3.0, the newest features are we've
added a web-based administration.
That's one of the things that allowed 3.0
to be exactly the same on every platform.
In versions 2 and earlier,
we actually had a little
Cocoa app for Mac OS X.
We've gotten rid of that and
everything is all web-based now.
We've added some broadcast automation
functionality which allows a
broadcaster to automatically
start up broadcasts to a server
which then get reflected to clients.
Skip protection is new.
Skip protection is just another
brand name for a collection of
quality of service enhancements
that we've added to 3.0 and will
continue adding in future versions.
We've improved the authentication.
We now have Digest MD5 authentication.
and we've done a few minor API changes.
So if you want to hear more about these,
there's a session tomorrow that
will go into a lot more detail.
and so here we're here's
where we are with downloads.
So we have over 150,000
downloads of the server itself.
The client has over 150 million
copies of the client in distribution,
which is a pretty big number.
And then the number I just looked up
recently which kind of surprised me
is that we have over 500 developers
that are currently subscribed
to the developer mailing list,
which means that they're
actively watching mail go by.
So I guess we've got probably
the biggest... We have the
biggest development team for any
streaming server in the world.
I guess you can look at it that way.
and another thing I did is I just
kind of did a search on Google for
QuickTime Streaming Server,
Darwin Streaming Server,
just to kind of see what kind
of people were using this.
And here's a list of some
of them I came up with.
There are actually a bunch.
I got like a massive number of pages
in Google when I did the search.
So NASA's using it someplace.
I'm not sure exactly
what department it is.
Popwire actually does
some pretty cool stuff.
They've got, they provide kind of
internet radio station.
And they've taken the playlist
broadcaster portion of the server
and modified that so that you could,
it,
provide crates of an internet
radio station that has ad
insertion and things like that.
Vancouver Film School has
standardized on the server.
They actually use it for,
they've got a little internal
TV show that they do and they put
that up on the web in streaming
format for quick time only.
SurfNet TV is,
I think that's the European site,
I actually don't remember what they do,
this is a week ago that
I looked at this stuff.
Ink Tomy has created a caching
proxy that works with the server.
Compaq, as I mentioned,
ported it to their 264 system
and they include that as,
one of the things they provide
is a collection of open source
software for that platform.
And the Darwin Streaming
Server is one of those items.
And the Mount Erebus Volcano Observatory,
they've got a camera that's up
in the crater and is actually
watching the volcano all the time.
And they've got a live stream
that you can go and watch.
They use the Darwin Streaming
Server for that.
Some of the resources are the
mailing list that I just mentioned.
If you go to lists.apple.com,
just search for the word "stream"
and you'll see two lists.
You'll see a developer
list and a user list.
They're both actually
good to subscribe to.
They don't have a massive
amount of traffic,
somewhere between 5
and 20 messages a day,
but they're all really
focused and good messages.
So it's actually good.
And all of our engineers are
actually up on those lists too,
so that's the best way to
get a hold of those guys.
You can get all the information about the
product up on Apple's open source site.
And then you can go to the QuickTime site
if you want to find out more about
QuickTime and more of the client
side features of QuickTime and
how they interact with the server.
and a couple of, or three,
four more sessions.
So there's a "Broadcating Live"
with QuickTime streaming or
broadcasting live at 5 o'clock.
And then tomorrow we've got two
sessions that are server-side only,
starting at 9 o'clock.
Just an overview of the server.
I'll go into more
detail about the server,
how it works, the new features,
things like that.
And then we'll have a bunch of the
engineers come up in the 407 session
and show you all the different
ways you can customize the server.
It's truly the most customizable
streaming server in the world.
And then we've got our feedback
forum on Thursday at 3.30.
And we'll also be at
the Beer Bust at Apple.
All the engineers there,
so you can kind of look either in the
server group or the QuickTime group.
We'll be in one or the other.
And that's it.
Next is Lane Roth.
Thank you.
All right, so I'm covering the
OpenPlay effort within Darwin.
The biggest news is that NetSprocket,
which was released as
open source a while back,
is now part of the OpenPlay effort
and it has been carbonized.
All of the NetSprocket functionality,
all those APIs are now part of
OpenPlay and are being tested
right now and getting all
that functionality working.
Currently,
the package that will be checked
in to CVS shortly consists
of two separate projects:
the OpenPlay project and
the NetSprocket project.
This is a legacy of how this all
came to be and how it was developed.
It makes things a little
bit tough to figure out.
We are working to correct that.
We will combine both of those
projects into a single project
that will be called OpenPlay.
This will alleviate some of the
weirdness with having multiple
directories that are the same name
and some duplication of source files,
so forth like
The current NetSprocket source is
available and will remain as such,
but all future work will be on
the combined OpenPlay project.
Okay,
so the networking API is designed to be
cross-platform and protocol agnostic.
Currently,
it is running under Mac OS X in
a carbonized form under
Mac OS as well as under Windows.
There is a TCP/IP network module that
is available for all of those platforms,
and then Apple Talk is
available for Mac OS.
There are three API layers
to the new OpenPlay.
There's the game interface,
and that's the highest level interface,
which was known
previously as NetSprocket.
That interface is what most of the
games and other applications will use.
The protocol interface was the
former straight OpenPlay interface.
It's a lower level interface
just for connecting and
passing packets back and forth.
The networking interface is
just a wrapper to go around
the different networking APIs,
and most people won't be using that.
It all comes together as you see.
Your application can talk to any one
of the three APIs within OpenPlay.
You can also talk directly to any of the
OS networking APIs as you feel needed.
Inside of OpenPlay,
the game interface talks to the
protocol interface and that talks
to the net module interface that is
selected for whichever game you're
running and it will talk directly
to the networking API in the OS.
Okay, so the game interface, as I said,
is the highest level interface.
This is basically the NetSprocket API.
It's the easiest way for
you to add functionality,
networking functionality to your game.
The APIs handle hosting games,
joining games,
it handles all the game management,
it handles your player management
for just two or more players.
It also handles packet management,
so you can send data back
and forth very simply.
You don't have to worry about a lot
of the details like all the wrapper
functions are in the cross platform
segment are swapped in their byte order.
You still are responsible for
doing that for your specific data,
but you don't have to worry
about all the underlying data.
That's all handled by those APIs.
It's cross platform again, OS X, Mac OS,
Windows.
The protocol interface is
a lower level interface.
This is where all the platform
agnostic and networking wrappers are.
Like I said,
there's IP for all the platforms
and there is Apple Talk for Mac OS.
And then besides running
on the mentioned platforms,
this interface has a start
into a Linux version and that
is underway by the community.
The networking interface is just
a very low level wrapper to go
around your different protocols.
It has a plug-in design so that
in the future if it's needed,
somebody can drop in a new protocol
module and they can do that
independent of the release package.
So you can do it just if you
have some private networking
API that you need to do,
you can have your own separate module
and not have to check it into CVS.
This single API can also be used
by your program if you want to have
that very low level control and
still have the network diversity.
And that's it.
and I manage the
Darwin Documentation Project.
So a couple years ago,
Apple obviously did a big leap into
open source with Darwin and then a few
months ago we did another major leap
into open source with our documentation.
It was a recognition that
the documentation is often as
important as the source code and
What the purpose of this project is,
is to provide the tools and
resources to allow developers to
provide the documentation directly.
Which is very exciting for me.
I've worked for a long time in
technical publications and one of
the things I've discovered is that
frequently the writers are a bottleneck
to the information that you need.
The engineer may have the information,
especially reference material.
The engineer may have written down
that information for the writer.
The technical support people
may have the information.
Some of our customers using the
product may have the information.
But because of the enormous number
of things the writers have to cover,
that may not get into the next release.
And it's wrong.
And it's a problem.
So one of the things that we're learning
from open source is how to remove that
bottleneck and let the person who has
the information provide the information
as quickly as possible to the audience.
This doesn't mean that we're not writing
documentation anymore or that we're
asking the community to provide it all.
We have a Darwin Technologies writing
team which is concentrating on
some of the big picture stuff.
So we're doing an
IOCAP fundamentals book,
we're doing KEX tutorials,
we're doing stuff on handling
USB and HID and such.
But the actual reference material
is more and more frequently
coming directly from the engineer
and getting into people's hands.
So here's the things that we cover
in the Darwin Documentation Project.
First and probably most
important is HeaderDoc.
And what is important about HeaderDoc is
that it's a very simple process.
It's a very simple process.
It's a very simple project.
And the reason about this is that every
person in this room who's doing a C or
C++ project should be using HeaderDoc.
[Transcript missing]
So as you can see,
we have quite a lot of different projects
and things that we're involved in.
Apple is extremely
committed to open source.
As I've mentioned before,
this isn't an experiment.
This is a way we're doing business.
And you'll see more and more
involvement from us as each day goes by,
as new projects come online as
it's appropriate and we get more
and more infrastructure in place.
We really want to encourage you to join
the community of open source developers.
There's, as I said,
over 3,500 just on our
mailing list alone.
There's a lot of great information
there and there's a lot of people who
really know the software inside and out,
including a lot of the
internal Apple developers.
This is a great way to
get to them directly.
And the people are quite
willing to jump on and answer
questions if you've got any.
So please participate.
There's a lot of conferences
that we're also involved in,
so in the open source community and such.
So we're going to be at MacHack.
We have a number of different
sessions there where we'll talk about
the booting architecture and more
information about Darwin and a number
of other talks going on at MacHack.
At USENIX, we have one,
a Boffin participation going
on that Ernie will be at.
And as well, we'll be at the O'Reilly
Open Source Conference.
I know I have a talk there,
an executive forum talk,
and we've got some others as well.
So we're certainly looking at ways
that we can be more involved in
some of these external activities.
And if you're going to be there,
we're going to be there too.
So on that,
I'd like to have Jason come up,
and we're going to do some Q&A.